Crypto doc rewrite (#794)
bitnami-labs/sealed-secrets: docs/developer/crypto.md

> # **Cryptographic documentation**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Cryptographic documentation
```

> ## **Protocols and cryptographic tools used**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Protocols and cryptographic tools used
```

> Sealed-secrets uses the following protocols for the secrets management :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sealed secrets uses the following protocols for secret management:
```

- **AES-256-GCM** with a randomly generated single-use 32 bytes session key. Since the key is single-use, we do not use any nonce. The key is used to encrypt the secret, ensuring its confidentiality and integrity.
- **RSA-OAEP**, with **SHA-256**. It is used to assure the confidentiality of the AES-256-GCM session key, following the *key encapsulation mechanism*.
- **X509** certificates are used to manage RSA public keys. This public key contained in the certificate can be used to encrypt AES-256-GCM session key.

Certificates generated by the sealed secrets controller are renewed every 30 days and have a 10 years validity span.

## Entropy considerations

> The golang API used for the entropy is `crypto/rand`. The following description can be found about the entropy generator used regarding the host system :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The golang API used for the entropy is `crypto/rand`. The following description can be found about the entropy generator used regarding the host system:
```

It would be nice to add a link to the source of this description.

```jsx
// On Linux, FreeBSD, Dragonfly and Solaris, Reader uses getrandom(2) if
// available, /dev/urandom otherwise.
// On OpenBSD and macOS, Reader uses getentropy(2).
// On other Unix-like systems, Reader reads from /dev/urandom.
// On Windows systems, Reader uses the RtlGenRandom API.
// On Wasm, Reader uses the Web Crypto API.
```

> Those cryptographic API are known to provide a good cryptographic entropy, which are not vulnerable to cryptographic attacks unless the seed is known.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Those cryptographic APIs are known to provide a good cryptographic entropy, and are not vulnerable to cryptographic attacks unless the seed is known.
```

> For further information about those API :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further information about those APIs:
```

- [Linux/FreeBSD/Dragonfly/Solaris](https://linux.die.net/man/4/urandom)
- [OpenBSD/macOS](https://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=getentropy&sektion=3&format=html)
- [Windows](https://download.microsoft.com/download/1/c/9/1c9813b8-089c-4fef-b2ad-ad80e79403ba/Whitepaper%20-%20The%20Windows%2010%20random%20number%20generation%20infrastructure.pdf)
- [WASM](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Crypto/getRandomValues)

> ## **Functioning**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Functioning
```

> ### **Public/private key pair management**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Public/private key pair management
```

The controller looks for a cluster-wide private/public key pair on startup. If no key pair is found and none is provided manually, the controller generates a new 4096 bit (by default) RSA key pair. In both cases, the key pair is persisted in a regular Secret in the same namespace as the controller.

The public key (in the form of a self-signed certificate if it was generated by the controller) should be made publicly available to anyone wanting to use SealedSecrets with this cluster.

> Note that it is possible to use your own X509 certificate with the command bellow :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that it is possible to use your own X509 certificate with the command bellow:
```

```
kubeseal --cert [https:/]/path/to/your-cert.pem
```

The certificate is printed to the controller log at startup and is also available via an HTTP GET request to `/v1/cert.pem` on the controller.

> ### **Secret encryption**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Secret encryption
```

The secret is encrypted by AES-256-GCM with a randomly-generated single-use 32 byte session key.

The result of this operation will be called `AES encrypted data` in the next diagram, and the present step is the `1.`.

> ### **Session key encryption**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Session key encryption
```

The session key used by AES-256-GCM to encrypt the Secret is encapsulated with the controller's public key using RSA-OAEP with SHA256.

The OAEP input content, called `label` in the next diagram, differs depending on the sealed secret controller scope configuration. This algorithm is only used to encrypt the AES session key.

- Default scope configuration : `label` is equal to the concatenation of the Secret's namespace and the Secret's name.
- Namespace-wide scope configuration : `label` is equal to the Secret's namespace.
- Cluster-wide scope configuration : `label` is empty.

The result of the RSA-OAEP encryption is called `RSA encrypted data` in the next diagram, and the present step is the `2.`.

> ### **Sealed Secret storage**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sealed Secret storage
```

The final Sealed Secret data format is the following (where `||` is the concatenation operator): `size of AES encrypted key (2 bytes) || RSA encrypted data || AES encrypted data`

> ### **Diagram to summarize**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Diagram to summarize
```

                                                   K_s────────────►│
                                                    │              │
                                       K_pub───────►│              │
                                                    │              │ 1.
                                       label───────►│ 2.           │
                                                    │              │
                     ┌──────────────────────┬───────▼───────┬──────▼───────┐
Sealed Secret data = │size of AES encrypted │ RSA encrypted │ AES encrypted│
                     │key (2 bytes)         │ data          │ data         │
                     └──────────────────────┴───────────────┴──────────────┘

K_s = 256 bits single-use session key, used by AES-GCM
K_pub = Public key from the self-signed certificate, used by RSA-OAEP
label = Additional input for RSA-OAEP encryption.
        Content differs depending on the scope configuration:
         * Default config : label = Secret's namespace || Secret's name
         * Namespace-wide : label = Secret's namespace
         * Cluster-wide : label is empty
```

> ### **Decryption process**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Decryption process
```
